eXo Platform provides CMIS support using xCMIS project and WCM Storage provider.

{note:title=CMIS basis}

  Find good CMIS intro on [http://gazarenkov.blogspot.com/2010/01/xcmis1-cmis-in-nutshell.html]

{note}

Why CMIS?

Over the past decades, mankind has accumulated a huge number of electronic documents, which led to the emergence of a large number of content management systems on the market. All of those systems have proprietary interfaces which creates problems for both smaller and bigger customers. Indeed, small-to-mid ones have to choose between very expensive solutions from big vendors and cheaper solutions with the risk of not finding a provider "alive" tomorrow. While mid-to-big companies with multiple CMS from multiple providers has suffered from limitations of their interoperability.
This situation led to the creation of CM related Open Standards such as WebDAV and then Java Content Repository JCR (with open implementations such as Apache Jackrabbit and eXo JCR).
Later, ECM vendors started discussions about the idea of a standard to make it easier to share and manage content and an Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (OASIS) technical committee was formed to write a formal specification of a Content Management Interoperability (CMIS) standard.

Two mutual targets which caused appearance of the specification:

# Content integration - ensuring of using the content from various repositories, even created by different vendors in a single application, such as the portal, CMS, etc.
# Access unification - a minimum interface provided by content repository to decouple the content storage from the application's business logic.

