Introduction in xCMIS, principles of its work and configuration.

{info}
Raw draft...
Based on [http://xcmis.org/]
{info}

h2. xCMIS project

The xCMIS project, initially contributed to the Open Source community by [http://www.exoplatform.com|eXo Platform],is an implementation of the full stack of Java-based CMIS services. 
xCMIS also include the client side frameworks for integrating content from different enterprise repositories according to the [http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=cmis|CMIS standard]. 

The idea of the project is to make as simple as possible joining Enterprise Content repositories making all of them CMIS-able and expose them to language-independent CMIS clients using the most convenient protocol.

xCMIS project [http://xcmis.org/]:
* TODO Is Packaged as J2EE Web archive (WAR) as well as prepared "download and go" Tomcat bundle
* TODO Has a live demo with full-featured CMIS Expert client, which is accessible on the xcmis.org site as well as with prepared "download and go" Tomcat bundle (the client is accessible as remote gadget)
* Embeded in Platform to create special xCMIS jcr repository and access it with any CMIS client.
* Tested with third-party CMIS clients such as: IBM CMIS Firefox Connector and CMIS Spaces Flex+AIR client. Either local repository (as described here) or [http://xcmis.org/xcmis1/rest/cmisatom] can be used as a CMIS repository's endpoint URL for these or other types of clients.

xCMIS project is distributed under the LGPL license. You can download sources on [http://code.google.com/p/xcmis/source/checkout|Google code],
or visit [http://code.google.com/p/xcmis/w/list|Community Wiki] for more information. 


h2. CMIS specification

{info}
Based on: 
Abstract chapter from 
Content Management Interoperability Services (CMIS) Version 1.0
OASIS Standard 
1 May 2010

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_Management_Interoperability_Services]
[http://gazarenkov.blogspot.com/2010/01/xcmis1-cmis-in-nutshell.html]
 
{info}


The Content Management Interoperability Services (CMIS) standard defines a domain model and Web Services and Restful AtomPub bindings that can be used by applications to work with one or more Content Management repositories/systems.
The CMIS interface is designed to be layered on top of existing Content Management systems and their existing programmatic interfaces. 
It is not intended to prescribe how specific features should be implemented within those CM systems, not to exhaustively expose all of the CM system.s capabilities through the CMIS interfaces. 
Rather, it is intended to define a generic/universal set of capabilities provided by a CM system and a set of services for working with those capabilities.

CMIS specification provides a Web services interface that:
* Is designed to work over existing repositories enabling customers to build and leverage applications against multiple repositories -- unlocking content they already have
* Decouples Web services and content from the content management repository, enabling customers to manage content independently
* Provides common Web services and Web 2.0 interfaces to dramatically simplify application development
* Is development platform and language agnostic
* Supports composite application development and mash-up by the business or IT analyst

For more details visit [xCMIS programmers guide].
